Graceful shutdown of a stream for a single subscription (#1201)
zio/zio-kafka: docs/consuming-kafka-topics-using-zio-streams.md

  .mapZIO(_.commit)
  .runDrain
```

## Controlled shutdown

> The examples above will keep processing records forever, or until the fiber is interrupted, typically at application shutdown. When interrupted, in-flight records will not be processed fully through all stream stages and offsets may not be committed. For fast shutdown in an at-least-once processing scenario this is fine. zio-kafka also supports a _graceful shutdown_, where the fetching of records for the subscribed topics/partitions is stopped, the streams are ended and all downstream stages are completed, allowing all in-flight messages to be fully processed.

Reviewer: > allowing all in-flight messages to be fully processed.

I suggest we change these words to:

> allowing commits for in-flight records to complete.

1. Let's continue to use the word 'records'.
2. Removed the word 'all' because when an interrupt is received, internally queued records are dropped and _not_ passed to the consumer.
3. The remaining in-flight records are already passed to the consumer so processing already commenced. The only relevant operation from zio-kafka point of view is that the records can be committed.

> Use the `*withControl` variants of `plainStream`, `partitionedStream` and `partitionedAssignmentStream` for this purpose. These return a ZIO producing a `SubscriptionStreamControl` and requiring a `Scope`. When provided with a `Scope`, eg using `ZIO.scoped { .. }`, the consumer remains subscribed to the given topics for the lifetime of the `Scope`. The graceful shutdown may be initiated by calling `SubscriptionStreamControl#stop`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `*withControl` variants of `plainStream`, `partitionedStream` and `partitionedAssignmentStream` for this purpose. These return a ZIO producing a `SubscriptionStreamControl` and requiring a `Scope`. When provided with a `Scope`, e.g. using `ZIO.scoped { .. }`, the consumer remains subscribed to the given topics for the lifetime of the `Scope`. Commits are possible for as long as the consumer is subscribed. The graceful shutdown may be initiated by calling `SubscriptionStreamControl#stop`.
```

It is not clear here what `stop` does. I guess it will stop consuming new records. Is it save to close the scope when `stop` completes?

Author: No longer relevant in latest version.

```scala
import zio.Console.printLine
import zio.kafka.consumer._

ZIO.scoped {
  for {

>     streamControl <- Consumer.partitionedStreamWithControl(Subscription.topics("topic150"), Serde.string, Serde.string)

Reviewer: Could this be layed out for smaller screens please?

Reviewer: @svroonland This comment is still relevant. Documentation needs to be readable even with all the headers, borders, menus etc. around it.

    stream = streamControl.stream.flatMapPar(Int.MaxValue) { case (topicPartition, partitionStream) =>
        ZStream.fromZIO(printLine(s"Starting stream for topic '${topicPartition.topic}' partition ${topicPartition.partition}")) *>
          partitionStream
            .tap(record => printLine(s"key: ${record.key}, value: ${record.value}")) // Replace with a custom message handling effect
            .map(_.offset)
      }
      .aggregateAsync(Consumer.offsetBatches)
      .mapZIO(_.commit)
      .runDrain
    streamFiber <- stream.forkScoped
    _ <- ZIO.sleep(10.seconds) *> streamControl.stop
    _ <- streamFiber.join
  } yield ()
}
```

In most use cases you don't need to explicitly control when to shutdown the stream, but you simply want a graceful shutdown on interruption when the application terminates. The `Consumer#runWithGracefulShutdown` method implements this pattern and can be used as follows:

```scala
import zio.Console.printLine
import zio.kafka.consumer._

> ZIO.scoped {

Reviewer: Would it be possible/desirable to create the scope inside `runWithGracefulShutdown` so that the user doesn't need to define it?

Reviewer: I see now that `runWithGracefulShutdown` already does this. So we don't need the `ZIO.scoped` here.

ensures only a single stream is doing commits.

In this example, each partition is processed in parallel, on separate fibers, while a single fiber is doing commits.

## Controlled shutdown (experimental)

The examples above will keep processing records forever, or until the fiber is interrupted, typically at application shutdown. When interrupted, some records may be 'in-flight', e.g. being processed by one of the stages of your consumer stream user code. Those records will be processed partly and their offsets may not be committed. For fast shutdown in an at-least-once processing scenario this is fine.

zio-kafka also supports a _graceful shutdown_, where the fetching of records for the subscribed topics/partitions is stopped, the streams are ended and all downstream stages are completed, allowing in-flight records to be fully processed.

> Use the `with*Stream` variants of `plainStream`, `partitionedStream` and `partitionedAssignmentStream` for this purpose. These methods accept a parameter that describes the execution of a stream, which is gracefully ended when the method is interrupted.

Author: Updated it

ensures only a single stream is doing commits.

In this example, each partition is processed in parallel, on separate fibers, while a single fiber is doing commits.

## Controlled shutdown (experimental)

The examples above will keep processing records forever, or until the fiber is interrupted, typically at application shutdown. When interrupted, some records may be 'in-flight', e.g. being processed by one of the stages of your consumer stream user code. Those records will be processed partly and their offsets may not be committed. For fast shutdown in an at-least-once processing scenario this is fine.

zio-kafka also supports a _graceful shutdown_, where the fetching of records for the subscribed topics/partitions is stopped, the streams are ended and all downstream stages are completed, allowing in-flight records to be fully processed.

Use the `*StreamWithControl` variants of `plainStream`, `partitionedStream` and `partitionedAssignmentStream` for this purpose. These methods return a `StreamControl` object allowing you to stop fetching records and terminate the execution of the stream gracefully. 

> There is also the `Consumer.runWithGracefulShutdown` method which can gracefully terminate the stream upon fiber interruption, useful for a controlled shutdown when your application is terminated. 

Author: Agreed, added to docs

As of zio-kafka 3.0, this functionality is experimental. If no issues are reported and the API has good usability, it will eventually be marked as stable.

```scala
import zio.Console.printLine
import zio.kafka.consumer._

ZIO.scoped {
    for {
      control <- consumer.partitionedStreamWithControl(
          Subscription.topics("topic150"),
          Serde.string,
          Serde.string
        )
      _ <- control.stream.flatMapPar(Int.MaxValue) { case (topicPartition, partitionStream) =>
            partitionStream
              .tap(record => printLine(s"key: ${record.key}, value: ${record.value}"))
              .map(_.offset)
          }
          .aggregateAsync(Consumer.offsetBatches)
          .mapZIO(_.commit)
          .runDrain
    } yield ()
}

> ```

Reviewer: I meant this text:

The intended usage pattern of this construct is something like:

```scala
streamControl <- Consumer.plainStreamWithControl
fib <- streamControl.stream.tap(..).runDrain
...
// At some point
_ <- streamControl.end
_ <- fib.join
```

> ```

Author: Added to docs

zio-kafka also supports a _graceful shutdown_, where the fetching of records for the subscribed topics/partitions is stopped, the streams are ended and all downstream stages are completed, allowing in-flight records to be fully processed.

Use the `*StreamWithControl` variants of `plainStream`, `partitionedStream` and `partitionedAssignmentStream` for this purpose. These methods return a `StreamControl` object allowing you to stop fetching records and terminate the execution of the stream gracefully.

The `StreamControl` can be used with `Consumer.runWithGracefulShutdown`, which can gracefully terminate the stream upon fiber interruption. This is useful for a controlled shutdown when your application is terminated:

```scala
import zio.Console.printLine
import zio.kafka.consumer._
import zio._

ZIO.scoped {
  for {
    control <- consumer.partitionedStreamWithControl(
      Subscription.topics("topic150"),
      Serde.string,
      Serde.string
    )

>     _ <- Consumer.runWithGracefulShutdown(control, shutdownTimeout = 30.seconds) { stream =>

Reviewer: Accessor method have been deprecated 🙂 

```suggestion
    _ <- consumer.runWithGracefulShutdown(control, shutdownTimeout = 30.seconds) { stream =>
```

zio-kafka also supports a _graceful shutdown_, where the fetching of records for the subscribed topics/partitions is stopped, the streams are ended and all downstream stages are completed, allowing in-flight records to be fully processed.

Use the `*StreamWithControl` variants of `plainStream`, `partitionedStream` and `partitionedAssignmentStream` for this purpose. These methods return a `StreamControl` object allowing you to stop fetching records and terminate the execution of the stream gracefully. 

There is also the `Consumer.runWithGracefulShutdown` method which can gracefully terminate the stream upon fiber interruption, useful for a controlled shutdown when your application is terminated. 

As of zio-kafka 3.0, this functionality is experimental. If no issues are reported and the API has good usability, it will eventually be marked as stable.

```scala
import zio.Console.printLine
import zio.kafka.consumer._

> for {

Reviewer: Should we wrap all of this in a `ZIO.scoped` block?
